# revealing-true-identity
## Revealing True Identity: Detecting Makeup Attacks in Face-based Biometric Systems

Face-based authentication systems are among the most commonly used biometric systems, because of the ease of capturing face images at a distance and in non-intrusive way. These systems are, however, susceptible to various presentation attacks, including printed faces, artificial masks, and makeup attacks. In this paper, we propose a novel solution to address makeup attacks, which are the hardest to detect in such systems because makeup can substantially alter the facial features of a person, including making them appear older/younger by adding/hiding wrinkles, modifying the shape of eyebrows, beard, and moustache, and changing the color of lips and cheeks. In our solution, we design a generative adversarial network for removing the makeup from face images while retaining their essential facial features and then compare the face images before and after removing makeup. We collect a large dataset of various types of makeup, especially malicious makeup that can be used to break into remote unattended security systems. This dataset is quite different from existing makeup datasets that mostly focus on cosmetic aspects. We conduct an extensive experimental study to evaluate our method and compare it against the state-of-the art using standard objective metrics commonly used in biometric systems as well as subjective metrics collected through a user study. Our results show that the proposed solution produces high accuracy and substantially outperforms the closest works in the literature.

## Guide for makeup removal code

